= DMPonline v4

DMPonline is the DCC's data management planning tool, available at https://dmponline.dcc.ac.uk

Development of the DMPonline by the Digital Curation Centre has been funded by JISC.  JISC inspires UK colleges and universities in the innovative use of digital technologies, helping to maintain the UK's position as a global leader in education. www.jisc.ac.uk

This is just the application code, the accompanying question data available at https://dmponline.dcc.ac.uk is not included.

The tool has four main functions
1. To help create and maintain different versions of Data Management Plans;
2. To provide useful guidance on data management issues and how to meet research funders' requirements;
3. To export attractive and useful plans in a variety of formats;
4. To allow collaborative work when creating Data Management Plans.

== Bugs & Feature Requests

* Bug Reports & Feature Requests: https://github.com/DigitalCurationCentre/DMPonline_v4/issues

== Prerequisites

DMPonline is a Ruby on Rails application and you'll need to have Ruby 2.1 on your server and a MySQL server v5.1 or greater.

You will need to ensure you have [RubyGems installed](http://guides.rubygems.org/rubygems-basics/) too. If you've had to upgrade the version of Ruby running on your server, don't forget to update the gems system too by running the following:

    $ gem update --system
    $ gem install bundler

Further details on how to install Ruby on Rails applications are available from the [Ruby on Rails site](http://rubyonrails.org).

While not a prerequisite, the DCC runs this using [Phusion Passenger 4](http://www.modrails.com/) with an Apache webserver

The shell utility [wkhtmltopdf](http://code.google.com/p/wkhtmltopdf/) is used to create PDF output and so this needs to be installed on your server.

== Getting Started

After downloading, create a `config/secrets.yml` file based on the provided `config/secrets.yml.sample` file. Currently only MySQL databases are supported.

Edit the configuration setting `config.action_mailer.default_url_options` in `config/application.rb`

Edit values for `config.mailer_sender` and `config.pepper` in `config/initializers/devise.rb`.  For config.pepper you can use a random string, or even an empty string for development.

If `wkhtmltopdf` is not installed to `/usr/local/bin/wkhtmltopdf` then you will need to edit the config value in `config/initializers/wicked_pdf.rb`

Use [mailcatcher](http://mailcatcher.me) in development to send email.

You'll need to install the gems, build the database and start the server:

    $ cd DMPonlive_v4
    $ bundle install 
    $ bundle exec rake db:setup
    $ bundle exec rails s -d 
    $ bundle exec rake db:populate
    $ bundle exec rake db:seed
    $ kill `cat tmp/pids/server.pid` # to kill the server
You may also find the following resources handy:

The second rake task creates a sample admin user.  See lib/tasks/user_data.rake for more details.

Use the local_db_backup sql file to pre-populate the dev database so that you can use the app without getting a bunch of errors.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2013 Digital Curation Centre, University of Edinburgh.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along with this program.  If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses.
